[MUSIC]
>> Ben Callahan: So fluid foundation,
flexible content, media queries,
these three things alone all happening
really in CSS let us do a ton of
adjustment to a site, okay?
If you just use these three things,
you can actually get
a layout to work pretty well
if you're kind of smart about it, you can
get it to work pretty well across devices.
Now let's talk about some
other considerations though.
Because it's a lot more
than just the guy writing
the CSS that probably needs
to be involved in this.
We're gonna cover quickly, touch target
area, hover states, contrast and
readability.
So not always, but most of the time,
as the viewport width shifts down, okay,
the smaller I get the more likely it
probably is that I'm actually on a device
with a different interaction model, okay?
I'm no longer using on
my phone a mouse and
a pointer, which is incredibly accurate.
/You know, we get we've gotten really good
at using those things to be very accurate
with our clicks and our interaction, but
I've got a big fat finger that I've got
to try and touch stuff with now, okay?
How many of you guys have been on a site
that's maybe it's a really cool responsive
site, but the nav is so tight I can
hardly, yeah, I can hardly touch the lid.
I mean that's so frustrating.
You know ,and it's not that
hard to it to figure out.
We can just add a little padding to those
links, put a little space between them.
All that can be done in CSS.
It's really not that hard.
Apple recommends in their
native iOS guidelines,
they talk about 44 by 44
pixels being the smallest
target area touch size that somebody
can reliably hit with a finger.
That's kinda big if you think about
it in terms of what a link generally
is on the web.
So we're talking about adding
some significant space around
around links to give people the ability
to actually use them effectively.
A lot of times I see this too.
I see people using margin on their anchors
to separate stuff, and if all they would
do is switch that to padding instead,
it's gonna increase the touch area.
Padding is gonna add to the height or
to the width of that link, as opposed to
margin, which would put space around it.
So it's something as simple as
using padding instead of margin can
actually be incredibly helpful for
usability.
There's lots of other guidelines too on
those kinds of touch target areas from
different hardware manufacturers.
But that's kinda what Apple says.
Hover states, I mean, good grief.
I've seen this a lot where I'm playing
around with a site on a touch device, and
there's content hidden behind hovers.
Drives me nuts.
The devices, to be honest,
are getting a little bit better
at showing that content and
registering the first touch as a hover.
But man, it's still frustrating at times.
And we could use some feature detection
actually to really simplify this.
Modernizr, who's using Modernizr?
Really cool feature detection library,
JavaScript based.
You can build your own little production
bundle that only tech tests for
the features you need.
And what it'll do is add this.
It'll add a series of
classes to the HTML element.
And what they do is indicate whether
a feature is supported or not.
So now in CSS,
I could do something like this.
Apply standard styles to an anchor.
And then in cases where no touch,
in cases were to the user agent is
not a touch agent, generally we could sort
of expect that we're using a mouse and
a pointer or some other interaction model.
Then we could allow hovers.
So just simply hiding our
hovers behind a no touch class,
you know, really simple to do, and
could actually be very beneficial.
I'm gonna show you guys one
quick example of what I think
is gonna be happening
a lot more in the future.
You guys saw the,
who saw the new microsoft.com
that launched not too long ago?
Some giggles in the audience,
what's that mean?
You guys don't go to
microsoft.com on a daily basis?
[COUGH] Well, believe it or not,
they actually did an incredible job.
Perivale and Austin did this.
Trent Walton and his crew,
Dave I mean this is amazing.
It's responsive.
>> Ben Callahan: It's actually
a really nice site.
What's interesting about this and I had
just literally three weeks before this or
maybe a month before they launched,
I had said to one of our clients that we
are working on a big, a big kind of
complex nav and a responsive sys scenario.
I said I don't think we should
use hovers on your primary nav.
They were the previous version
of the site had a big, you know,
horizontal nav you could hover over these
things to get these mega drop downs.
I said I thought why don't we even on the
even on the desktop with them with a click
of a mouse interaction,
why don't we just make the user click
products download security,
why don't we do that?
And so we did that.
And then Microsoft launched and
I was looking at the site and
I just noticed this.
I love it.
They still got a little hover right, it's
hard to see, but the color of the link
changes when you hover, but I have to
click to get the Mega Drop Down here.
Okay, I think we're going to
start to see this a lot more,
shifting away from hiding
that content behind a hover.
I mean, a click versus a hover here,
come on,
like let's be real about how
much time we're talking about.
So I think this is great, and
I think we're gonna start to see
a lot more of this kinda thing.
>> Ben Callahan: [COUGH] There's lots
of other things we could consider with
feature detection as well here but
that's just one example.
Contrast.
I don't see a lot of people walking down
the sidewalk with a laptop kind of like
this, right?
You will see that a lot.
Generally with a laptop,
you're sitting someplace.
It's kind of hard to use them standing or
maybe you're a standing desk, but
you're a bit more stationary.
Occasionally maybe you're on a train or
a subway or a bus or something.
So there are use cases but
especially in, you know, the more mobile
context of a phone, I see people walking
down the street all the time like this.
You know, I think you know that the sun is
bright and it's shining on that display.
It's not a controlled environment.
We need to be thinking about
things like contrast, you know?
And I see some of the coolest designs
out there are the ones where they
really are playing with just these
minute differences in contrast and
it looks great.
When I'm looking at it on my
cinema display in the office, but
man I can't even see it sometimes on
a phone, especially if I'm outside.
You need to try this stuff.
Take it outside,
take your site outside on a device.
Try it in bed when it's dark.
Let's be honest,
how many of you guys play with your phones
at night when you're laying in bed, right?
Who woke up with their alarm clock
on their phone this morning?
Okay, right next to you, right?
I mean, these things are always with us.
People are gonna try it and
take it with you.
Get out and
experiment a little bit with it.
Try it in other places.
And then readability,
a lot of times this drives me crazy.
Small screens does not mean small type.
[LAUGH] Okay, have you seen people doing
this with their phones too, right?
Crammed it right up to their face because
they can't read the text, because somebody
thought as the screen gets smaller,
the type should get smaller too, but
we actually use them much comfortable
a comfortable place to use them is here.
You know, it's a different distance than
what we work with than what we might
use a laptop.
So when you think about those things,
just try it, you know?
It's not as easy to increase the font
size on a phone as it is on a browser.
I have to sort of pinch and
zoom, you know?
And then I've, if I've created a nice
responsive of site and I zoom in,
I have to like, I have to typewriter it,
you know, to be able to read it.
So try to create type
sizes that are readable.
Those are just a handful of things.
There's a ton more that we could
talk about and will talk about.
But this is a quick overview, responsive,
just to kind of bring
everybody up to speed.
I think we should take
a quick five minute break.
I'm gonna grab a little bit more water,
and then we'll come back and
talk a little bit about process,
all right?
Excellent.